string-functions: add instructions for using CONCAT() and CONCAT_WS() (#16048)
pingcap/docs: functions-and-operators/string-functions.md

Synonym for `CHAR_LENGTH()`.

### [`CONCAT(str1,str2,...)`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/string-functions.html#function_concat)

The `CONCAT()` function is used to concatenate one or more arguments.

> ```sql

Reviewer: ````suggestion

```sql
````

SELECT CONCAT('TiDB', ' ', 'Server', '-', 1, TRUE);

+---------------------------------------------+
| CONCAT('TiDB', ' ', 'Server', '-', 1, TRUE) |
+---------------------------------------------+
|                              TiDB Server-11 |
+---------------------------------------------+
```

`CONCAT()` returns `NULL` if any argument is `NULL`.
```sql
SELECT CONCAT('TiDB', NULL, 'Server');

+--------------------------------+
| CONCAT('TiDB', NULL, 'Server') |
+--------------------------------+
|                           NULL |
+--------------------------------+
```

Otherwise, concatenation can be performed by placing the strings next to each other

```sql
SELECT 'Ti' 'DB' ' ' 'Server';

+-------------+
|          Ti |
+-------------+
| TiDB Server |
+-------------+
```

### [`CONCAT_WS(separator,str1,str2,...)`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/string-functions.html#function_concat-ws)

The `CONCAT_WS()`function is similar to the `CONCAT()` function and concatenates one or more arguments, but does this with a separator that is specified by the user.

> The first argument is the separator, while the rest of the argument is used for concatenation.

Reviewer: ```
[2024-01-09T15:39:24.168Z] MANUAL LINE BREAKS: L146
```

This can be fixed by merging line 162 and 163 by removing the newline.

```sql
SELECT CONCAT_WS(',', 'TiDB Server', 'TiKV', 'PD');

+---------------------------------------------+
| CONCAT_WS(',', 'TiDB Server', 'TiKV', 'PD') |
+---------------------------------------------+
|                         TiDB Server,TiKV,PD |
+---------------------------------------------+
```

- `CONCAT_WS()` returns the concatenation of the rest of the argument if the separator is `EMPTY` string.
- `CONCAT_WS()` returns `NULL` if the separator is `NULL`.

```sql
SELECT CONCAT_WS('', 'TiDB Server', 'TiKV', 'PD');

+--------------------------------------------+
| CONCAT_WS('', 'TiDB Server', 'TiKV', 'PD') |
+--------------------------------------------+
|                          TiDB ServerTiKVPD |
+--------------------------------------------+
```

> ```sql

Reviewer: ````suggestion

```sql
````

SELECT CONCAT_WS(NULL, 'TiDB Server', 'TiKV', 'PD');

+----------------------------------------------+
| CONCAT_WS(NULL, 'TiDB Server', 'TiKV', 'PD') |
+----------------------------------------------+
|                                         NULL |
+----------------------------------------------+
```

- `CONCAT_WS()` skips `NULL` arguments after the separator argument.
- `CONCAT_WS()` does not skips `EMPTY` string  after the separator argument.

```sql
SELECT CONCAT_WS(',', 'TiDB Server', NULL, 'PD');

+-------------------------------------------+
| CONCAT_WS(',', 'TiDB Server', NULL, 'PD') |
+-------------------------------------------+
|                            TiDB Server,PD |
+-------------------------------------------+
```

> ```sql

Reviewer: ````suggestion

```sql
````

Synonym for `CHAR_LENGTH()`.

## [`CONCAT()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/string-functions.html#function_concat)

The `CONCAT()` function concatenates one or more arguments into a single string.

Syntax:

```sql
CONCAT(str1,str2,...)
```

`str1, str2, ...` is a list of arguments to be concatenated. Each argument can be a string or a number.

Example:

```sql
SELECT CONCAT('TiDB', ' ', 'Server', '-', 1, TRUE);
```

Output:

```sql
+---------------------------------------------+
| CONCAT('TiDB', ' ', 'Server', '-', 1, TRUE) |
+---------------------------------------------+
| TiDB Server-11                              |
+---------------------------------------------+
```

If any of the arguments is `NULL`, `CONCAT()` returns `NULL`.

Example:

```sql
SELECT CONCAT('TiDB', NULL, 'Server');
```

Output:

```sql
+--------------------------------+
| CONCAT('TiDB', NULL, 'Server') |
+--------------------------------+
| NULL                           |
+--------------------------------+
```

> In addition to the `CONCAT()` function, you can concatenate strings by placing them adjacent to each other as in the following example, but this method does not support numeric types.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to the `CONCAT()` function, you can concatenate strings by placing them adjacent to each other as in the following example. Note that this method does not support numeric types.
```

Synonym for `CHAR_LENGTH()`.

### [`CONCAT(str1,str2,...)`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/string-functions.html#function_concat)

> The `CONCAT()` function is used to concatenate one or more arguments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `CONCAT()` function concatenates one or more arguments.
```

```sql

> SELECT CONCAT('TiDB', NULL, 'Server');

Reviewer: I think it might be best to start with a simple common example instead of a exception like how it handles `NULL`.

So maybe first something like `SELECT CONCAT('foo','bar','baz')` before having an example with a `NULL` argument.

+--------------------------------+
| CONCAT('TiDB', NULL, 'Server') |
+--------------------------------+
|                           NULL |
+--------------------------------+
```

`CONCAT()` returns `NULL` if any argument is `NULL`.

```sql

> SELECT CONCAT('TiDB', ' ', 'Server', '-', 1, true);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SELECT CONCAT('TiDB', ' ', 'Server', '-', 1, TRUE);
```

> SELECT CONCAT('TiDB', ' ', 'Server', '-', 1, TRUE);

Reviewer: I think we should split the SQL statement from the output like this:

````
```sql
SELECT CONCAT('TiDB', ' ', 'Server', '-', 1, TRUE);
```

```
+---------------------------------------------+
| CONCAT('TiDB', ' ', 'Server', '-', 1, TRUE) |
+---------------------------------------------+
|                              TiDB Server-11 |
+---------------------------------------------+
```
````

+---------------------------------------------+

> | CONCAT('TiDB', ' ', 'Server', '-', 1, true) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| CONCAT('TiDB', ' ', 'Server', '-', 1, TRUE) |
```

+---------------------------------------------+
|                              TiDB Server-11 |
+---------------------------------------------+
```

Otherwise, concatenation can be performed by placing the strings next to each other

```sql
SELECT CONCAT('TiDB', ' ', 'Server', '-', 1, true);
+---------------------------------------------+
| CONCAT('TiDB', ' ', 'Server', '-', 1, true) |
+---------------------------------------------+
|                              TiDB Server-11 |
+---------------------------------------------+
```

### [`CONCAT_WS(separator,str1,str2,...)`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/string-functions.html#function_concat-ws)

> The `CONCAT_WS()` function is used to concatenate one or more arguments with the separator and is a form of CONCAT() with th separator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `CONCAT_WS()` function is used to concatenate one or more arguments with a separator and is a form of CONCAT() but with a separator.
```

> The `CONCAT_WS()` function is used to concatenate one or more arguments with a separator and is a form of CONCAT() but with a separator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `CONCAT_WS()` function is similar to the `CONCAT()` function and concatenates one or more arguments., but does this with a separator that is specified by the user.
```
